>> Will Sentance: We were talking about
our solution before that was just
a prettifying,
a cleaning up of the sticking out
function that creates our objects.
And those objects need to combine
all the data of user 1 or user 20,
that is name Eva score 9, with all of
the functionality that's gonna be applied.
So that user object, so we're not off on
a hunt every time, as we're writing our
code, to say okay, we want to have
the user's score increase at this moment.
Where's the increase score functionality?
I can't even use it.
No, no, don't worry.
There it is on the right-hand side.
It's not on the object, though,
cuz that'd be a disaster,
copies on every single object.
You've got 1,000 users, 1,000 copies
of the increment function complete.
>> Will Sentance: Memorarily inefficient,
no, complete and
efficient in terms of memory.
And so we put them all in one place, all
those shared functions in one place, and
then use this proto bond,
JavaScript's prototypal nature, to go and
know that at the moment of
the interpreter looks for
a function and doesn't find it,
doesn't give up.
Goes and looks up there.
Now, we then made some refinements.
That is, we said, let's not do the whole
process of creating that object manually.
Let's use a new keyword that's gonna do
all that inside automatically for us.
Well, that also restricts a little bit
where we're gonna put the functions.
So we put them in there now.
In that function that creates
the object dot prototype,
which is an object where
we put all the functions.
Then we said, man, rather than putting
them in there manually, which to me does
not feel that much work and
actually feels kind of explicit and clear.
Well, other languages kind of give us,
other languages let
us combine methods with the function
that creates the object
that has access to those methods all
in one construct known as a class.
But they are not implementing
under the hood the same way.
So, it's debatable whether it's
a positive step to wrap all this up,
because while Java Script
fundamentally is not a traditionally
object-oriented language, it is
a prototypal language, cuz it's faking it.
Under the hood it's doing this stuff.
And I promise you if any of you use
Java or C++, any of these languages,
their implementation of classes
in object-oriented design is not
this under the hood.
It's something quite different.
Who knows what, I don't know.
But I know it's different,
so it is maybe debatable.
That's why we're building up
a true understanding of how,
otherwise we just go straight to this.
If you were in another language
you'd go straight to solution four,
because there is nothing
under the hood on that.
It is what it is.
But here, solution four is a mask for
a bunch of under
the hood that we need to understand
to properly use solution four.
Okay, here we go.
So solution for, mode is the new standard,
feels more like the style of
other languages like Python Java.
But nobody knows how it's
working under the hood.
If solution three folk didn't know, but
at least they saw the prototype word,
now nobody knows.
But we do.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: All right, so
you will not be one of those folk,
you will be the special ones who know.
Now that proto reference,
that little proto properties are,
that refers to other objects.
JavaScript decides, that allows us
to give an object like user1 or
user20, bonus functionality
that's not on the object itself.
Whereas that increment function is
not on the object itself, it's bonus.
Well actually, in JavaScript,
all objects, and by the way,
functions remember are also objects,
so objects are functions.
And by the way arrays are definitely
just objects with property zero,
one, two, three.
Those are the keys that allow us to go and
access things in arrays as
though they are arrays.
They're not actually under the hood sort
of lists in the conventional sense of
the language.
They're just objects.
They all actually get a bunch of
bonus functionality by default.
That is to say they all, all objects
have a hidden underscore product
underscore property,
that links off to a store of functions.
Let's see this play out, but
it's gonna give you the preview,
see that has own property,
I'm not sure that's on.
So where the hell's it coming from?
Now you may just think,
well I don't know, JavaScript.
Well, actually, it's pretty explicit,
it's gonna follow this proto-path.
All right.